
h moves the cursor one character to the left.
j moves the cursor down one line.
k moves the cursor up one line.
l moves the cursor one character to the right.
0 moves the cursor to the begining of the line.(zero)
$ moves the cursor to the end of the line.
w move forward one word.
b move backward one word.
G move to the end of the file.
gg move to the beginning of the file.
`. move to the last edit.`
x deletes the character the cursor is on.

DELETIONS
d starts the delete operation.
dw will delete a word.
d0 will delete to the beginning of a line.
d$ will delete to the end of a line.
dgg will delete to the beginning of the file.
dG will delete to the end of the file.
u will undo the last operation.
Ctrl-r will redo the last undo.

IN COMMAND MODE
/text search for text in the document, going forward.
n move the cursor to the next instance of the text from the last search. This will wrap to the beginning of the document.
N move the cursor to the previous instance of the text from the last search.
?text search for text in the document, going backwards.
:%s/text/replacement text/g search through the entire document for text and replace it with replacement text.
:%s/text/replacement text/gc search through the entire document and confirm before replacing text.

COPYING AND PASTING
v highlight one character at a time.
V highlight one line at a time.
Ctrl-v highlight by columns.
p paste text after the current line.
P paste text on the current line.
y yank text into the copy buffer.

:w saves files
if your file doesn't have a name, then you can do  -> :w filename
:q to quit
ZZ will save and quit the file

:tabedit filename allows for you to open a new tab and edit the specified file
{i}gt navigates to a tab based on index i
:tabfirst first tab
:tablast last tab
:tabn next teb
:tabp previous tab
:tabclose to close a single tab
:tabonly closes all tabs but the one you're working on

:mksession header-files-work.vim and hit enter
Your current session of open tabs will be stored in a file header-files-work.vim

y'k will yank/copy all the lines from start to end
d'k will cut/delete all the lines from start to end
